So the first thing to know when
building a data science team,
is that data science is a team sport.
It takes a large group of people
working together to solve real,
practical data science projects.
So those people include
the data scientists.
The managers of those data scientists,
data engineers who perform and
develop the infrastructure.
And then people who they have contact
with outside of their data science team.
So people within the organization or
management of the organization,
and how do they communicate
with those people?
So I just thought I'd go through the key
positions in the data science team.
And so the first one is a data engineer.
So, a data engineer is a person that
would maybe construct a database, or
they might pull data out of that
database for people to analyze.
Or they might build production level
machine learning algorithms and
implement them on servers, so that they
can be applied to a huge database of
observations of data, and
maybe even run in real time.
So they have skills in infrastructure
development, both the hardware side and
the software side.
And they do less of the actually
analysis of the day to day data.
That falls to the person that's
called a data scientist.
So a data scientist might be somebody that
would go and pull data out of a database.
Then they might analyze it, perform
experiments on it, visualize it and
communicate those results to
the data science manager, and
to other people in the organization
to try and move things forward.
Often, a data scientist will hand off
any machine learning algorithm or
prediction algorithm they develop,
to the data engineer,
who will then implement it so
it can run at scale.
The third key person is the data
science manager, so that would be you.
The data science manager, makes sure that
everybody interacts with each other and
that they keep things moving.
They also recruit and
build the data science team.
And then they also interface with
upper management in an organization.
As well as with collaborators that are at
their same level across the organization,
to make sure that they get
all the information across.
And they advertise the data
science team to other people,
what their capabilities are, what they
can do, and how they can help out.
So that's the data science team,
and then how do they work together?
They work together as a unit, and so
often each of these people are working
on individual projects, or individual
subproblems of a data science problem.
And then they come together and have joint
group meetings and joint presentations,
where they discuss their ideas.
They also interact with external folks,
they might interact with those people
directly through individual meetings with
people outside of the data science team.
Or they might interact through
the data science manager.
So, in either way they have to be able to
communicate what's going on with the data
science infrastructure, what's going
on with the data science team.
And how do they make sure that all
the problems are getting solved.